---
meta:
  title: "Authentication"
  description: "Learn more about authenticating your Liveblocks application"
---

Liveblocks provides different methods to authenticate your application using
your public and secret API keys. For any production application, you should use
your secret key to enable access token or ID token authentication. These methods
can be used to control access to your rooms and data.

<Banner title="Public key is for prototyping" type="warning">

We don’t recommend using your public API key in production, as it’s difficult
for us to accurately measure your MCUs without any user information. We
recommend using your secret key instead, see below.

</Banner>

## Authentication methods

Secret key authentication in Liveblocks relies on generating JSON Web Tokens
(JWTs), and then passing these to your client. There are two different types of
authentication tokens you can generate and it’s important to decide on which you
need before setting up your application.

### Access tokens

[Access token](/docs/authentication/access-token) authentication allows you to
handle permissions yourself. When a user authenticates, it’s up to you to let
Liveblocks know which rooms they should be allowed inside. This means that you
need to manually keep track of which users should be allowed in which rooms, and
apply these permissions yourself each time a user connects.

<Figure>
  <Image
    src="/assets/authentication/access-token-enter-room.png"
    alt="An access token granting entry to a room"
    width={1494}
    height={840}
    quality={100}
  />
</Figure>

In the diagram above, you can see that `olivier@example.com`’s access token is
allowing him into the `Vu78Rt::design/9Hdu73` room.

### ID tokens

[ID token](/docs/authentication/id-token) authentication allows Liveblocks to
handle permissions for you. This means that when you create or modify a room,
you can set a user’s permissions on the room itself, this acting as a source of
truth. Later, when a user tries to enter a room, Liveblocks will automatically
check if the user has permission, and deny them access if the permissions aren’t
set.

<Figure>
  <Image
    src="/assets/authentication/id-token-enter-room.png"
    alt="An ID token granting entry to a room"
    width={1494}
    height={840}
    quality={100}
  />
</Figure>

In the diagram above, `olivier@example.com`’s ID token verifies his identity,
and when he tries to enter the `Vu78Rt::design/9Hdu73` room, his permissions are
then checked on the room itself.

## Next steps

Learn how to use your chosen authentication method.

<ListGrid columns={2}>
  <DocsCard
    title="Access token permissions"
    href="/docs/authentication/access-token"
    type="image"
    description="Simple and flexible global permission rules"
    center={false}
    visual={
      <Image
        src="/assets/authentication/access-token-enter-room.png"
        alt="An access token granting entry to a room"
        width={1494}
        height={840}
        quality={100}
      />
    }
  />
  <DocsCard
    title="ID token permissions"
    href="/docs/authentication/id-token"
    type="image"
    description="Fine grained permissions at the room level"
    center={false}
    visual={
      <Image
        src="/assets/authentication/id-token-enter-room.png"
        alt="An ID token granting entry to a room"
        width={1494}
        height={840}
        quality={100}
      />
    }
  />
</ListGrid>
