---
meta:
  title: "Manage team members"
  parentTitle: "Platform"
  description: "Learn how to manage team members on your Liveblocks account."
---

Teams are made up of members, and each member can be assigned a role. These
roles define what you can and cannot do within a team on Liveblocks.

As your project scales, and you add more team members, you can assign each
member a role to ensure that they have the right permissions to work on your
projects.

## Inviting team members

To invite new members to your team, select the team from the scope selector,
then open the **Settings** tab and navigate to **Members**.

<Figure>
  <Image
    src="/assets/account-management/team-members.png"
    alt="Liveblocks team members"
    width={768}
    height={406}
  />
</Figure>

Enter the email address of the person youâ€™d like to add, select their role, and
press the **Invite** button.

<Figure>
  <Image
    src="/assets/account-management/team-members-invite-dialog.png"
    alt="Invite team member to Liveblocks"
    width={768}
    height={406}
  />
</Figure>

## Access roles

Liveblocks offers two types of roles for team members, each providing different
levels of access and permissions.

### Owner role

As a team owner, you have full administrative control over your team. This
includes the ability to manage all aspects of account & project settings,
security, and billing.

Team owners can manage API keys in all projects and also change the roles of
other team members, including promoting members to owners. However, the only way
an owner can renounce their role is by either choosing to leave, or by deleting
the team altogether.

Teams can have more than one owner. For continuity, we recommend that at least
two individuals have owner permissions. Additional owners can be added without
any impact on existing ownership. Keep in mind that role changes, including
assignment and revocation of team member roles, are an exclusive capability of
those with the owner role.

### Member role

Those with the member role have the ability to create and manage projects. They
are also granted permissions to manage API keys for all projects.

However, there are certain team-level settings that are off-limits to members.
These include editing team settings, such as billing information, and the
ability to invite new users to the team. This restriction is in place to
maintain the division of responsibilities and control between members and
owners.
