---
meta:
  title: "How Liveblocks works"
  parentTitle: "Concepts"
  description:
    "Liveblocks is a real-time collaboration infrastructure for building
    performant collaborative experiences."
---

Liveblocks is a real-time collaboration infrastructure for building performant
collaborative experiences. The foundations of Liveblocks are built upon four
core concepts: products, rooms, integrations, and platform.

## Products

Liveblocks is a fully integrated solution built around core products, each
enabling a different facet of collaborative experiences:
[Presence](/docs/products/presence), [Broadcast](/docs/products/broadcast),
[Storage](/docs/products/storage), and [Comments](/docs/products/comments). You
can decide what products you want to use based on your requirements and
collaborative experiences youâ€™re looking to build.

<Figure highlight>
  <Image
    src="/assets/concepts/products.png"
    alt="How Liveblocks works - Products"
    width={768}
    height={440}
  />
</Figure>

## Rooms

A room is the digital space in which people collaborate. You can require your
users to be [authenticated](/docs/rooms/authentication) to interact with rooms,
and each room can have specific [permissions](/docs/rooms/permissions) and
[metadata](/docs/rooms/metadata) associated with them.

<Figure highlight>
  <Image
    src="/assets/concepts/rooms.png"
    alt="How Liveblocks works - Rooms"
    width={768}
    height={440}
  />
</Figure>

## Integrations

Integrations for specific libraries and frameworks to add Liveblocks-powered
collaborative experiences to your product. Integrations are designed to serve
various collaboration use cases such as text editors, comments, creative tools,
forms, and more.

<Figure highlight>
  <Image
    src="/assets/concepts/integrations.png"
    alt="How Liveblocks works - Integrations"
    width={768}
    height={440}
  />
</Figure>

## Platform

Liveblocks provides a fully-hosted platform built around a
[WebSocket infrastructure](/docs/platform/websocket-infrastructure) that scales
to millions of users. With the platform, you get a lot of powerful tools such as
[REST APIs](/docs/api-reference/rest-api-endpoints),
[webhooks](/docs/platform/webhooks), [DevTools](/docs/platform/devtools),
[schema validation](/docs/platform/schema-validation),
[analytics](/docs/platform/analytics), and more.

<Figure highlight>
  <Image
    src="/assets/concepts/platform.png"
    alt="How Liveblocks works - platform"
    width={768}
    height={440}
  />
</Figure>
